.TH "MALIAS" "1" "June 2023" "Malias v1" "Malias Manual"

.SH NAME
malias \- An alias manager that allows you to easily add, delete or list your bash aliases.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B malias
[\fI\,OPTION\/\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
An alias manager that allows you to easily add, delete or list your bash aliases in your ".bashrc" file by automating and securing every steps for you.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-m, \-\-menu
Open the main menu which allows you to choose what operation to perform.
.br
.RB "You can either type " "add " "(" "a " "for short) to add a new alias, " "list " "(" "l " "for short) to list your current aliases, " "delete " "(" "d " "for short) to delete an alias, " "help " "(" "h " "for short) to print the help message or " "quit " "(" "q " "for short) to quit Malias."
.br
This is the default if no option is passed.

.TP
.B \-a, \-\-add
Add a new alias.

.TP
.B \-l, \-\-list
Print the list of your current aliases.

.TP
.B \-d, \-\-delete
Delete an alias.

.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Print the current version.

.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Print the help.

.SH EXIT CODES
.TP
.B 0
OK

.TP
.B 1
Invalid option

.TP
.B 2
User didn't gave the confirmation to proceed

.TP
.B 3
An error occured when creating/restoring the backup of the .bashrc file

.TP
.B 4
An error occured when adding/removing the alias

.SH USAGE
.TP
.B The main menu
.RB "Type the " "malias " "command to open the main menu that will print every possible operations (add, list, delete, help, quit) followed by a short description."
.br
From there, just type the name (or simply the first letter) of the operation you want to perform.

.TP
.B The add operation
.RB "The add operation allows you to add a new alias. It will ask for the " "alias name " "and the " "command " "you want to associate your alias with."
.br
.RB "For instance, in the alias " "ll='ls -l'" ", " "ll " "would be the " "alias name " "and " "ls -l " "would be the " "command".
.br
After filling in the requested information and giving the confirmation to proceed, the new alias will automatically be added to your .bashrc file (after being backuped).
.br
Malias will then look for potential errors and apply the new alias or restore the .bashrc's backup (in case there's errors).

.TP
.B The list operation
The list operation prints the list of your current aliases.

.TP
.B The delete operation
.RB "The delete operation allows you to delete an alias. It will print the list of your current aliases with a " "unique number " "in front of each aliases (like the " "list " "function does)."
.br
You must then type the number associated to the alias you want to delete and give the confirmation to proceed.
.br
Once done, the selected alias will automatically be removed from your .bashrc file (after being backuped).
.br
Malias will then look for potential errors and apply the deletion or restore the .bashrc's backup (in case there's errors).

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR clear (1),
.BR cp (1),
.BR mv (1),
.BR rm (1),
.BR echo (1),
.BR printf (1),
.BR grep (1),
.BR sed (1),
.BR cut (1),
.BR date (1),
.BR bash (1)

.SH BUGS
Please report bugs to the GitHub page https://github.com/Antiz96/malias

.SH AUTHOR
Robin Candau <robincandau@protonmail.com>
